Python Boto3 and Amazon DynamoDB Programming Tutorial (#1528)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/python-boto3-and-amazon-dynamodb-programming-tutorial/index.md

    "temperature1": 23.74,
    "temperature2": 23.74,
    "temperature3": 12.43,
    "temperature4": 44.74,
    "temperature5": 12.74
  }
}
```

### Read item
We will read the item we just created. Using the method `get_item`, we will specify the primary key of the item we want to read. In this case, the primary key to the table `Devices` is made of a partition key and a sort key. The primary key is `device_id`, and the sort key is `datacount`.

```python
from botocore.exceptions import ClientError
import boto3

def get_device(device_id, datacount, dynamodb=None):
    dynamodb = boto3.resource(
        'dynamodb', endpoint_url="http://localhost:8000")

    devices_table = dynamodb.Table('Devices')

    try:
        response = devices_table.get_item(
            Key={'device_id': device_id, 'datacount': datacount})
    except ClientError as e:
        print(e.response['Error']['Message'])
    else:
        return response['Item']

if __name__ == '__main__':
    device = get_device("10001", 3,)
    if device:
        print("Get Device Data Done:")
        print(device)

```

Run the command below to execute the script `read_item.py`.

```bash
python read_item.py
```

> Below is the expected output. The response item is similar to the item we created previously. Using the specific primary key, we can retrieve a particular item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the expected output. You can confirm that the response item is the item we created previously. Using the specific primary key, we can retrieve a particular item.
```

```bash
Get Device Data Done:
{'datacount': Decimal('3'),
 'device_id': '10001',
 'info': {'info_timestamp': '1612522800',
          'temperature1': '23.74',
          'temperature2': '32.56',
          'temperature3': '12.43',
          'temperature4': '44.74',
          'temperature5': '12.74'}}
```

### Conditions
DynamoDB has a provision of using conditions. Conditions can be applied when updating or deleting items. We can provide a `ConditionExpression`. If the `ConditionExpression` evaluates to true, then the action is performed. Refer [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Expressions.ConditionExpressions.html) for more information on condition expressions. Familiarize yourself with different [DynamoDB conditions](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/customizations/dynamodb.html#dynamodb-conditions).

### Update

> The update modifies an existing item by updating the values of current attributes, removing attributes, or adding new attributes. In this tutorial, we will update the values of existing attributes. Below is the original item and the updated item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update refers to modifying a previously created item by updating the values of existing attributes, removing attributes, or adding new attributes. In this tutorial, we will update the values of existing attributes. Below is the original item and the updated item.
```

**Original Item**
```json
{
  "device_id": "10001",
  "datacount": 3,
  "info": {
    "info_timestamp": "1612522800",
    "temperature1": 23.74,
    "temperature2": 23.74,
    "temperature3": 12.43,
    "temperature4": 44.74,
    "temperature5": 12.74
  }
}
```

**Updated item**
```json
{
  "device_id": "10001",
  "datacount": 3,
  "info": {
    "info_timestamp": "1612522800",
    "temperature1": 33.74,
    "temperature2": 23.74,
    "temperature3": 25.2,
    "temperature4": 22.0,
    "temperature5": 25.0
  }
}
```

> We will use the method `update_item`, as shown in the code below. Create a script named update_item.py `update_item.py` and add the code below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use the `update_item` method, as shown in the code below. Create a script named  `update_item.py` and add the code below.
```

    print("Device Updated")
    pprint(update_response)
```

Run the command below to execute the script`update_item.py`.

```bash
python update_item.py
```

Below is the expected output.

```bash
{'Attributes': {'info': {'info_timestamp': '1612522800',
                         'temperature1': '33.74',
                         'temperature2': '23.74',
                         'temperature3': '25.20',
                         'temperature4': '22.00',
                         'temperature5': '25.00'}},
 'ResponseMetadata': {'HTTPHeaders': {'content-length': '212',
                                      'content-type': 'application/x-amz-json-1.0',
                                      'date': 'Fri, 05 Feb 2021 11:27:43 GMT',
                                      'server': 'Jetty(9.4.18.v20190429)',
                                      'x-amz-crc32': '1118861638',
                                      'x-amzn-requestid': 'a6a8201d-dc10-4837-be6a-7de03ee9b24f'},
                      'HTTPStatusCode': 200,
                      'RequestId': 'a6a8201d-dc10-4837-be6a-7de03ee9b24f',
                      'RetryAttempts': 0}}
```

### Delete Item

> To delete an item, we use the method `delete_item`. We can specify the primary key for the item to delete or provide a `ConditionExpression`. If we use a `ConditionExpression`, the item will not be deleted unless the condition is fulfilled. In this example, we will provide a primary key for the item to be deleted and provide a `ConditionExpression`. The item will be deleted if the `ConditionExpression` is met. In this example, the condition is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an item, we use the `delete_item` method. We can specify the primary key for the item to delete or provide a `ConditionExpression`. If we use a `ConditionExpression`, the item will not be deleted unless the condition is evaluated to True. In this example, we will provide a primary key for the item to be deleted and provide a `ConditionExpression`. The item will be deleted if the `ConditionExpression` is met. In this example, the condition is:
```

```python
ConditionExpression="info.info_timestamp >= :val"
```
We will delete the item below:

```json
{
  "device_id": "10001",
  "datacount": 3,
  "info": {
    "info_timestamp": "1612522800",
    "temperature1": 33.74,
    "temperature2": 23.74,
    "temperature3": 25.2,
    "temperature4": 22.0,
    "temperature5": 25.0
  }
}
```

> The item will be deleted if the value of `info_timestamp` is greater than or equal to the value provided. Create a script named `info_timestamp` and paste the code below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The item will be deleted if the value of `info_timestamp` is greater than or equal to the value provided. Create a script named `info_timestamp.py` and paste the code below.
```

#### Query
Querry returns all items that match the partition key value. In this example, we will query all the data for a specific partition key. We need to specify the partition key value. In this case, the partition key is `device_id`. We will query all the items where `device_id` is equal to 10001. To learn more about DynamoDB queries, refer to the [developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Query.html).

```python
import boto3
from boto3.dynamodb.conditions import Key

def query_devices(device_id, dynamodb=None):
    dynamodb = boto3.resource(
        'dynamodb', endpoint_url="http://localhost:8000")

    devices_table = dynamodb.Table('Devices')
    response = devices_table.query(
        KeyConditionExpression=Key('device_id').eq(device_id)
    )
    return response['Items']

if __name__ == '__main__':
    query_id = "10001"
    print(f"Device Data from Device ID: {query_id}")
    devices_data = query_devices(query_id)
    for device_data in devices_data:
        print(device_data['device_id'], ":", device_data['datacount'])
```

Run the command below to execute the script `query.py`.

```bash
python query.py
```

#### Scan

> Scan operation reads and returns all the items in the table. The method `DynamoDB.Table.scan()` is used to scan. Using a `filter_expression`, we can filter the items to be returned. However, the whole table will be scanned, and items not matching the `filter_expression` will be thrown away. Create a script named `scan.py` and paste the code below. To learn more about DynamoDB scans, refer to the [developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Scan.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scan operation reads and returns all the items in the table. The method `DynamoDB.Table.scan()` is used to scan a table. Using a `filter_expression`, we can filter the items to be returned. However, the whole table will be scanned, and items not matching the `filter_expression` will be thrown away. Create a script named `scan.py` and paste the code below. To learn more about DynamoDB scans, refer to the [developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Scan.html).
```

```python
import boto3

def scan_devices(display_devices_data, dynamodb=None):
    dynamodb = boto3.resource(
        'dynamodb', endpoint_url="http://localhost:8000")
    devices_table = dynamodb.Table('Devices')
    done = False
    start_key = None
    while not done:
        if start_key:
            scan_kwargs['ExclusiveStartKey'] = start_key
        response = devices_table.scan()
        display_devices_data(response.get('Items', []))
        start_key = response.get('LastEvaluatedKey', None)
        done = start_key is None

if __name__ == '__main__':
    def print_devices(devices):
        for device in devices:
            print(f"\n{device['device_id']} : {device['datacount']}")
            print(device['info'])

    print(
        f"Scanning all devices data")
    scan_devices(print_devices)
```

> The script above scans through the table `Devices` with no `filter_expression`. Run the command below to execute the script scan.py. The output will be all the items in the `Devices` table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script above scans the `Devices` table with no `filter_expression`. Run the command below to execute the script scan.py. The output will be all the items in the `Devices` table.
```

    "temperature1": 33.74,
    "temperature2": 23.74,
    "temperature3": 25.2,
    "temperature4": 22.0,
    "temperature5": 25.0
  }
}
```

The item will be deleted if the value of `info_timestamp` is greater than or equal to the value provided. Create a script named `delete_item.py` and paste the code below.

```python
from botocore.exceptions import ClientError #import Boto3 exceptions and error handling module
from pprint import pprint #import pprint, a module that enable to “pretty-print” 
import boto3 #import Boto3

def delete_device(device_id, datacount, info_timestamp, dynamodb=None):
    dynamodb = boto3.resource(
        'dynamodb', endpoint_url="http://localhost:8000")
    #Specify the table to delete from
    devices_table = dynamodb.Table('Devices')

    try:
        response1 = devices_table.delete_item(
            Key={
                'device_id': device_id,
                'datacount': datacount
            },
            # Conditional request
            ConditionExpression="info.info_timestamp <= :value",
            ExpressionAttributeValues={
                ":value": info_timestamp
            }
        )
    except ClientError as er:

>         if er.response1['Error']['Code'] == "ConditionalCheckFailedException":

Author: @rahulbanerjee26 I have taken note of the issues and resolved the code error.
